src/docs/co2js/explainer/methodologies-for-calculating-website-carbon.md, before:

---
title: Methodologies for calculating website carbon
description: CO2.js offers two models for understanding the environmental impact of compute - the 1byte model, and the Sustainable Web Design model.
eleventyNavigation:
  key: website-carbon-methodologies
  # parent: overview
  title: Methodologies for calculating website carbon
  sectionTitle: Explanations
  order: 30
---
# {{ title }}

CO2.js offers two models for understanding the environmental impact of compute - the 1byte model (`1byte.js`), and the Sustainable Web Design model (`swd.js`).

## Default

Currently, CO2.js uses the 1byte model as the default when calculating carbon emissions.

## Carbon estimation models

### The 1byte model

The default model in use is the 1byte model as used by the Shift Project, as introduced in their report on CO2 emissions from digital infrastructure, [Lean ICT: for a sober digital][soberDigital].

This returns a number for the estimated CO2 emissions for the corresponding number of bytes sent over the wire, and has been used for video streaming, file downloads and websites.

### The Sustainable Web Design model

As of version 0.9, CO2.js also provides the  [Sustainable Web Design model][swd] for calculating emissions from digital services. As the name suggests, this has been designed for helping understand the environmental impact of websites. Further details are available on the [Sustainable Web Design website explaining the model](https://sustainablewebdesign.org/calculating-digital-emissions/), but for convenience, a short summary is below.

#### How the SWD works

This model uses data transfer as an proxy indicator for total resource usage, and uses this number to extrapolate energy usage numbers for your application as a fraction of the energy used by the total system comprised of:

1. the use-phase energy of datacentres serving content
2. the use-phase energy network transfering the data
3. the use-phase energy of user device an user is accessing content on
4. the total embodied energy used to create all of the above

![swd model](https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/co2.js/raw/main/images/swd-energy-usage.png)

It then converts these energy figures to carbon emissions, based on the carbon intensity of electricity from the [Ember annual global electricity review][Ember-annual-global-electricity-review].

The carbon intensity of electricity figures for the swd model include the the full lifecycle emissions including upstream methane, supply-chain and manufacturing emissions, and include all gases, converted into CO2 equivalent over a 100 year timescale.

This follows the approach used by the IPCC 5th Assessment Report Annex 3 (2014), for the carbon intensity of electricity.

[Ember's methodology notes][ember-methodology] detail where the rest of this data comes from in more detail, as well as any further assumptions made.

[ember-methodology]: https://ember-climate.org/app/uploads/2022/03/GER22-Methodology.pdf
[Ember-annual-global-electricity-review]: https://ember-climate.org/insights/research/european-electricity-review-2022/
[soberDigital]: https://theshiftproject.org/en/lean-ict-2/
[swd]: https://sustainablewebdesign.org/calculating-digital-emissions

Commit message:

add note on how models differ

src/docs/co2js/explainer/methodologies-for-calculating-website-carbon.md, after:

---
title: Methodologies for calculating website carbon
description: CO2.js offers two models for understanding the environmental impact of compute - the 1byte model, and the Sustainable Web Design model.
eleventyNavigation:
  key: website-carbon-methodologies
  # parent: overview
  title: Methodologies for calculating website carbon
  sectionTitle: Explanations
  order: 30
---
# {{ title }}

CO2.js offers two models for understanding the environmental impact of compute - the 1byte model (`1byte.js`), and the Sustainable Web Design model (`swd.js`).

## Default

Currently, CO2.js uses the 1byte model as the default when calculating carbon emissions.

## Carbon estimation models

### The 1byte model

The default model in use is the 1byte model as used by the Shift Project, as introduced in their report on CO2 emissions from digital infrastructure, [Lean ICT: for a sober digital][soberDigital].

This returns a number for the estimated CO2 emissions for the corresponding number of bytes sent over the wire, and has been used for video streaming, file downloads and websites.

### The Sustainable Web Design model

As of version 0.9, CO2.js also provides the  [Sustainable Web Design model][swd] for calculating emissions from digital services. As the name suggests, this has been designed for helping understand the environmental impact of websites. Further details are available on the [Sustainable Web Design website explaining the model](https://sustainablewebdesign.org/calculating-digital-emissions/), but for convenience, a short summary is below.

#### How the SWD works

This model uses data transfer as an proxy indicator for total resource usage, and uses this number to extrapolate energy usage numbers for your application as a fraction of the energy used by the total system comprised of:

1. the use-phase energy of datacentres serving content
2. the use-phase energy network transfering the data
3. the use-phase energy of user device an user is accessing content on
4. the total embodied energy used to create all of the above

![swd model](https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/co2.js/raw/main/images/swd-energy-usage.png)

It then converts these energy figures to carbon emissions, based on the carbon intensity of electricity from the [Ember annual global electricity review][Ember-annual-global-electricity-review].

The carbon intensity of electricity figures for the swd model include the the full lifecycle emissions including upstream methane, supply-chain and manufacturing emissions, and include all gases, converted into CO2 equivalent over a 100 year timescale.

This follows the approach used by the IPCC 5th Assessment Report Annex 3 (2014), for the carbon intensity of electricity.

[Ember's methodology notes][ember-methodology] detail where the rest of this data comes from in more detail, as well as any further assumptions made.

### How the models differ

These models return slightly different results, since they apply different system boundaries as part of their calculations. Tom Greenwood has written [a terrific blog post](https://www.wholegraindigital.com/blog/website-energy-consumption/) explaining system boundaries and how they impact carbon estimates.

The 1byte model, as it has been implemented in CO2.js, applies narrow system boundaries - datacenter and network only. It takes a top down approach to calculations, returning a single carbon emissions result based on a given input. It should be noted that the original model used in the Lean ICT report did have broader systems boundaries. However, when the model was included in CO2.js a judgement call was made to reduce its scope. You can read more about why in [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/thegreenwebfoundation/co2.js/issues/68).

On the other hand, the Sustainable Web Design model has a broader system boundary (explained above). It takes a more complex, but detailed, bottom up approach. By using a wider system boundary, the Sustainable Web Design model provides a more comprehensive carbon estimate. This also means that segmented estimates can be produced for each part of the system, allowing for greater granularity and flexibility.

As a result, the `perByte` carbon estimates returned when using the 1byte model will be lower than those from Sustainable Web Design for the same amount of data transfer.

[ember-methodology]: https://ember-climate.org/app/uploads/2022/03/GER22-Methodology.pdf
[Ember-annual-global-electricity-review]: https://ember-climate.org/insights/research/european-electricity-review-2022/
[soberDigital]: https://theshiftproject.org/en/lean-ict-2/
[swd]: https://sustainablewebdesign.org/calculating-digital-emissions
